---
layout: page
title: Ecomphp- Createpayment [Simplifiedshopflow]
permalink: /development/php-and-development-libraries/version-1-x--ecomphp-/7438490/
parent: Php And Development Libraries
grand_parent: Development
---



# EComPHP: createPayment \[simplifiedShopFlow\] 
Created by Thomas Tornevall, last modified on 2020-12-11
- [Initialize the
  module](#EComPHP:createPayment%5BsimplifiedShopFlow%5D-Initializethemodule)
- [Successful orders vs unsuccessful orders - Setting rules of signing
  (Flow
  requirement)](#EComPHP:createPayment%5BsimplifiedShopFlow%5D-Successfulordersvsunsuccessfulorders-Settingrulesofsigning(Flowrequirement))
  - [The syntax for setSigning is as
    follows:](#EComPHP:createPayment%5BsimplifiedShopFlow%5D-ThesyntaxforsetSigningisasfollows:)
- [Set the preferred payment service
  (flow)](#EComPHP:createPayment%5BsimplifiedShopFlow%5D-Setthepreferredpaymentservice(flow))
- [Prepare the
  customer](#EComPHP:createPayment%5BsimplifiedShopFlow%5D-Preparethecustomer)
  - [Billing
    address](#EComPHP:createPayment%5BsimplifiedShopFlow%5D-Billingaddress)
    - [getPayload()](#EComPHP:createPayment%5BsimplifiedShopFlow%5D-getPayload())
  - [Additional required customer
    data](#EComPHP:createPayment%5BsimplifiedShopFlow%5D-Additionalrequiredcustomerdata)
    - [getPayload()](#EComPHP:createPayment%5BsimplifiedShopFlow%5D-getPayload().1)
- [Preparing the
  cart](#EComPHP:createPayment%5BsimplifiedShopFlow%5D-Preparingthecart)
  - [Function:
    addOrderLine()](#EComPHP:createPayment%5BsimplifiedShopFlow%5D-Function:addOrderLine())
  - [Function:
    getPayload()](#EComPHP:createPayment%5BsimplifiedShopFlow%5D-Function:getPayload())
- [Special
  requirements](#EComPHP:createPayment%5BsimplifiedShopFlow%5D-Specialrequirements)
- [Preparing a order
  reference](#EComPHP:createPayment%5BsimplifiedShopFlow%5D-Preparingaorderreference)
- [Creating the
  order](#EComPHP:createPayment%5BsimplifiedShopFlow%5D-Creatingtheorder)
  - [The booked payment
    response](#EComPHP:createPayment%5BsimplifiedShopFlow%5D-Thebookedpaymentresponse)
[Handle signed
payments](#EComPHP:createPayment%5BsimplifiedShopFlow%5D-Handlesignedpayments)
As said in another chapter of this documentation, EComPHP 1.0.2+ and
1.1.2+ is furthermore simplified. To create a standard order, as shown
in our test suite, the steps below are required to build a payment in
the simplified flow. The examples are taken from the test suite, so we
assume that you do run this in a similar environment. The steps below
should render a huge payload, but instead of creating it by yourself,
EComPHP can do this for you. If you want to look at the payload rendered
by EComPHP after each step, you can use the **getPayload()**-function to
view what's creating during the process.
## Initialize the module
``` syntaxhighlighter-pre
use Resursbank\RBEcomPHP\RESURS_ENVIRONMENTS;
use Resursbank\RBEcomPHP\ResursBank;
$preferredEnvironment = RESURS_ENVIRONMENTS::TEST;
$this->rb = new ResursBank( $this->username, $this->password, $preferredEnvironment );
// or
$this->rb = new ResursBank( $this->username, $this->password );
$this->rb->setEnvironment($preferredEnvironment);
```
## Successful orders vs unsuccessful orders - Setting rules of signing (Flow requirement)
This is a part of customer preparing and required by the flow to
properly work when it comes to signing/authorizing payments that
requires this.
Before proceeding, it is **required** configure the payment to handle
signings; if we for some reason require that your customer signs the
payment - this happens for example, if you set a delivery address that
mismatches with your billing address. If you have your own requirements
(for example, you want to force signing every time a payment are
created) this part is also important. **Besides, without the rules of
signing, Resurs Bank won't accept the payment.** But the setup is quite
simple. You need to set up two urls for this: One for successful
signings and one for signings that fails during the payment process.
**setSigning()**
``` syntaxhighlighter-pre
$this->rb->setSigning("https://mystore.test.com/signingSuccessful", "https://mystore.test.com/signingFailed", false);
```
Running this will prepare for eventually letting the customer sign the
payment. The boolean false tells Resurs Bank to not force any signing.
### The syntax for setSigning is as follows:
  
| Parameter    | Type                    | Description                                                                                                               |
|--------------|-------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| successUrl   | string                  | Tells Resurs Bank where your payment, when successful, will land (*Thanks for your order*, normally).                     |
| failUrl      | string                  | The opposite to successUrl. When customers for some reason fails through making the order this is where they should land. |
| forceSigning | boolean                 | If you want all orders to force signing, set it to true. Normally, this should be disabled.                               |
| backUrl      | string                  | Backurls is normally used for hosted flow, where customers can return to the checkout without fulfilling anything.        |
| encodeType   | RESURS_URL_ENCODE_TYPES | Default: None. Do not use. This is for extreme cases only, where the url encoding with Resurs Bank Fails.                 |
  
## Set the preferred payment service (flow)
First, we need to prepare EComPHP for which payment flow we want to use.
``` syntaxhighlighter-pre
use Resursbank\RBEcomPHP\RESURS_FLOW_TYPES;
//
$this->rb->setPreferredPaymentService(RESURS_FLOW_TYPES::SIMPLIFIED_FLOW);
```
Override functions keeping compatibility between flows
Note that setAdditionalDebitOfPayment() overrides this, as most of the
payload are built to fit all flows, with the base from the simplified
shopflow. For example, additionalDebitOfPayment is a simplified shopflow
function and does not exist in Resurs Checkout. Therefore, adding a
payment spec based on the Resurs Checkout payload, will fail. By this
override, you can still add orderlines in the Checkout row format while
EComPHP converts the specrows to a format that the simplified shopflow
understands.
## Prepare the customer
The second step to take is to prepare the customer from a shop. This can
be done by manually adding a customer to the internal payload of
EComPHP. The data below should be replaced with variables, so not all
customers get the name Anders Andersson.
### Billing address
``` syntaxhighlighter-pre
$this->rb->setBillingAddress("Anders Andersson", "Anders", "Andersson", "Hamngatan 2", null, "Ingestans", "12345", "SE");
```
If you think that the getAddress-API in Resurs Bank is useful, you don't
have to add the customer data manually. Instead, you can use this
function to create your customer payload
``` syntaxhighlighter-pre
$this->rb->setBillingByGetAddress("198305147715");
```
#### getPayload()
``` syntaxhighlighter-pre
{
    "address": {
        "fullName": "Vincent Williamsson Alexandersson",
        "firstName": "Vincent",
        "lastName": "Alexandersson",
        "addressRow1": "Glassgatan 15",
        "postalArea": "G\u00f6teborg",
        "postalCode": "41655",
        "country": "SE"
    }
}
```
### Additional required customer data
As we are dependent of the customer phone numbers, e-mail etc, you also
need to set up that data for the customer. Since the billing (and
delivery) address above is a separate section of the customer block,
this additional data are added with setCustomer().
This function needs to set up some data from the client:
- governmentId
- phoneNumber
- cellPhone
- e-mail
- customer type (NATURAL for private shoppers and LEGAL for companies)
This very much depends on which payment method you are choosing and in
the simplified flow you need to set up a web based form for the customer
where this data can be entered. Take a look at the page [General
integration](5014037.html#General:Integrationdevelopment-Thecheckoutandformsthatneedstobefilledin),
and see the rules  to follow on how to set up this form. For some
payment methods (like card) not all of the above data is required, while
for example INVOICE-payments require them all. EComPHP 1.0 and 1.1
currently has a collection of "long time deprecation functions", which
much likely might help you in the form creation. One of the
methods, **getTemplateFieldsByMethodType()**, collects the correct set
of form fields for the chosen payment method **(NOTE: The template
handlers that has been imported from shopFlow, the old one is
deprecated!)**. For this version serie, you will also get a collection
with regular expression rules, for which you can use to validate the
form fields so that they are filled in correctly. [In the WooCommcerce
plugin](https://bitbucket.org/resursbankplugins/resurs-bank-payment-gateway-for-woocommerce/src/6617e10a5cdfe210628eec0aef4109a7049ff21b/resursbankgateway.php?at=master&fileviewer=file-view-default#resursbankgateway.php-1139)
(at least up to v2.1.0) those methods are used. However, since they are
in deprecated: This will not be handled at all in the future (i.e.
EComPHP 1.2.x does not containt this ruleset), mostly because forms are
a very dynamic thing and payment methods at Resurs Bank may be
configured differently compared how the payment solution are actually
set up.
  
``` syntaxhighlighter-pre
$this->rb->setCustomer("198305147715", "0808080808", "0707070707", "test@test.com", "NATURAL");
```
If you are using setBillingByGetAddress, you can set the first field
(governmentId) to null, as the payload will set the government id with
the help of getAddress().
#### getPayload()
``` syntaxhighlighter-pre
{
    "governmentId": "198305147715",
    "email": "test@test.com",
    "phone": "0808080808",
    "cellPhone": "0707070707",
    "type": "NATURAL"
}
```
  
## Preparing the cart
A payment is nothing without the cart. In our case, the cart is your
final cart from your store - the payment specification (orderlines). To
create an orderline, you can use **addOrderLine()** for your help, and
as Resurs Checkout this function only requires minimum of data to render
a correct orderline. The data needed is the following:
  
[TABLE]
  
#### Function: addOrderLine()
``` syntaxhighlighter-pre
$this->rb->addOrderLine(
   "HORSE",
   "Stallponny",
   4800,
   25,
   "st",
   null,
   1
);
```
#### Function: getPayload()
``` syntaxhighlighter-pre
{
    "specLines": [{
        "artNo": "HORSE",
        "description": "Stallponny",
        "quantity": 1,
        "unitMeasure": "st",
        "unitAmountWithoutVat": 4800,
        "vatPct": 25,
        "type": "",
        "id": 1,
        "totalVatAmount": 1200,
        "totalAmount": 6000
    }]
}
```
### Special requirements
If you have special requirements of your order, like you need to wait
for the fraudcontrol before proceeding, if you need to annul an order
immediately if it's frozen, etc, such values goes with extra parameters
in the payload. In this step you may want to add things that is normally
not included via EComPHP, like how the payment are handled together with
callbacks. In short; you can add your own payload before proceeding with
the payment. Like this:
``` syntaxhighlighter-pre
$myPayLoad = array(
   'paymentData' => array(
      'waitForFraudControl' => false,
      'annulIfFrozen' => false,
      'finalizeIfBooked' => false
   ),
   'metaData' => array(
      'key' => 'CustomerId',
      'value' => '1337'
   ),
   'customer' => array(
      'yourCustomerId' => '1337'
   )
);
```
Note: In EComPHP, the function addMetaData() is used after a created
payment, not to confuse with.
### Preparing a order reference
Somtimes we refer this as the "preferred payment id". You can set it by
yourself, with setPreferredId(), but sometimes - when you don't need
this to be specific - you can use the internal function
**getPreferredId()** instead. This function are delivered with a default
setup, creating order references (string) with a maximum length of 25
characters and an optional prefix. If you have a very high load of
shopping in your store, and are worried about the unique ids created
with this function, it is also possible to double the uniqueness of the
order reference. Giving the command
``` syntaxhighlighter-pre
$this->rb->getPreferredId(25, "MYSTORE", true);
```
WIll for example create a reference that looks
like: **2017****05****12****110317**-**MYSTORE****466** (the default
format of references is set to
**YYYY****MM****DD****HHMMSS-PREFIX****RAND**). To get the current set
payment reference, you can use **getPreferredPaymentId()**. Running this
function with a boolean value of true, the preferred id will be set if
it does not already exists.
### Creating the order
After following the steps above, you are now ready to initiate the
booking. This is done by simply use the function createPayment(). In
this example, we have a payment method called "INVOICE", so we will use
that as the first parameter in.
``` syntaxhighlighter-pre
$Payment = $this->rb->createPayment("INVOICE");
```
Having your own payload as described above? Sure. Just add it:
``` syntaxhighlighter-pre
$Payment = $this->rb->createPayment("INVOICE", $myPayload);
```
#### The booked payment response
This is an example of the response that is returned after a successful
createPayment(). At this moment, the below bookPaymentStatus can give
you a bunch of different answers. Take a look
at [bookPaymentStatus](bookPaymentStatus_1476387.html) for more
information about this.
``` syntaxhighlighter-pre
{
    "paymentId": "20170512112617-0195646528",
    "bookPaymentStatus": "BOOKED",
    "signingUrl": null,
    "approvedAmount": "6000",
    "customer": {
        "governmentId": "8305147715",
        "address": {
            "fullName": "Vincent Williamsson Alexandersson",
            "firstName": "Vincent",
            "lastName": "Alexandersson",
            "addressRow1": "Glassgatan 15",
            "postalArea": "G\u00f6teborg",
            "postalCode": "41655",
            "country": "SE"
        },
        "phone": "+46707070707",
        "email": "test@test.com",
        "type": "NATURAL"
    }
}
```
## Handle signed payments
In some cases, the bookPaymentStatus will be "SIGNING". This means you
need to handle signings also (which has been mentioned above in the
"rules of signing"-section. How? You put up a landing page for where you
can handle successful signings. When your customers sign payments, they
are redirected back to your store, where you can handle the final part
of a signed payment. Normally, Resurs Bank are attaching the parameter
you set up in the signing step, so do not forget to add a payment
reference when you do this. The payment reference is supposed to be
picked back up at the landing page.
``` syntaxhighlighter-pre
$Payment = $this->rb->bookSignedPayment("prior_set_payment_id");
```
When this is done, you'll get a new
[response](bookPaymentResult_1476388.html) from the signing sent back to
Resurs Bank. If everything is successful, you may start handling the
final parts of the order (like changing order statuses or whatever you
need to do to set the order as confirmed). When this is also done, you
may redirect your customer to your final "successful landingpage".
  
