---
layout: page
title: Ecomphp- Contribute
permalink: /development/php-and-development-libraries/version-1-x--ecomphp-/7438475/
parent: Php And Development Libraries
grand_parent: Development
---



# EComPHP: Contribute 
Created by Thomas Tornevall, last modified on 2017-10-11
EComPHP is delived as open source, we encourage the community to develop
and enhance the module. On this page, some tips is being held as there
are "best practices" to use with it.

- [Developing functions using Resurs Bank
  service](#ecomphp:contribute-developingfunctionsusingresursbankservice)
  - [Initializing services](#ecomphp:contribute-initializingservices)
  - [Building functions](#ecomphp:contribute-buildingfunctions)

## Developing functions using Resurs Bank service
### Initializing services
Most of the services provided by Resurs Bank are already implemented. If
there are some missing, enhancing the module with those is welcome. For
all function being built with EComPHP we usually need to initialize user
authentication and such thigs, which is being made with
**InitializeServices()**.

### Building functions
If the services are provided from Resurs webservices (WSDL), you should
take a look at \$ServiceRequestList, for where all function calls are
linked to the service that is providing it. For example,
getPaymentMethods could be reached from the SimplifiedShopFlowService,
so in the array, it's defined as 'getPaymentMethods' =\>
'SimplifiedShopFlowService'. All methods are defined the same way.
\$ServiceRequestList are then using the function postService() to handle
the call. So, for this specific method, we can *almost* keep ourself
with a oneliner:

**getPaymentMethods example**
```xml
public function getPaymentMethods($parameters = array()) {
   $this->InitializeServices();
   return $this->postService( "getPaymentMethods", array(
      'customerType'   => isset( $parameters['customerType'] ) ? $parameters['customerType'] : null,
      'language'       => isset( $parameters['language'] ) ? $parameters['language'] : null,
      'purchaseAmount' => isset( $parameters['purchaseAmount'] ) ? $parameters['purchaseAmount'] : null
   ) );
}
```
For Resurs Checkout and hosted flow, we will never get to
use \$ServiceRequestList as the urls are not related to WSDL. Instead,
at least for Resurs Checkout, we use getCheckoutUrl() to get the current
URL for the checkout. As both production and test environments are
available, getCheckoutUrl() handles this for you. To get a proper URL to
for example the callbacks interface, you can do a very simple request
that looks like this:

**Get checkout URL**
```xml
$this->getCheckoutUrl() . "/callbacks";
```
Since the checkout allows both POST, GET, PUT and DELETE, the calls are
being handled "more manually" for each function, being implemented. In
the example below we are preparing to register a callback for annulling
payments.

**Resurs Checkout calls**
```xml
$renderCallback = array('array', 'that', 'contains', 'a', 'setup', 'for', 'registering', 'an', 'annulment', 'callback');
$renderedResponse = $this->CURL->doPost($this->getCheckoutUrl() . "/callbacks/ANNULMENT", $renderCallback, \TorneLIB\CURL_POST_AS::POST_AS_JSON);
```
As you can see here, we are speaking directly to the CURL interface,
which handles everything. Since the checkout like JSON data, and
registering callbacks is a POST method, we'll do a doPost() with the
array, that is - when posting the data - is converted to a JSON string.
If the rest call not requires a POST, a GET can be done in a similar
way:

**Fetching all registered callbacks for a merchant**
```xml
$CallbackList = $this->CURL->getParsedResponse($this->CURL->doGet($this->getCheckoutUrl() . "/callbacks"));
```
