---
layout: page
title: Ecomphp- Setadditionaldebitofpayment() - Update Payments With Additional Data
permalink: /development/php-and-development-libraries/version-1-x--ecomphp-/8126466/
parent: Php And Development Libraries
grand_parent: Development
---



# EComPHP: setAdditionalDebitOfPayment() - Update payments with additional data 

In the simplified flow, [Additional Debit of
Payment](additional-debit-of-payment) will give you the opportunity to
add more orderlines to your orders after it has been created. As of
EComPHP 1.0.3 and 1.1.3, this is also supported by the library. To make
it easy to add more orderlines to an order, we are using our own
internal function addOrderLine(). You might want to take a look at
[EComPHP: createPayment \[simplifiedShopFlow\]](7438490) to find out
more about this. In 1.0.3/1.1.3, after creation of an order, EComPHP
will clean up the internal storage of the payment spec, as soon as it
has been successfully booked. This means that you can reuse that
function to put in additional lines:

```xml
$paymentId = "myPaymentId";
$this->rb->addOrderLine(
   "extraLine",
   "One another forgotten orderline",
   150,
   25,
   "st",
   null,
   1
);
// With setLoggedInUser() you can also set up a user identification for the createdBy-parameter sent with the additional debig. If not set, EComPHP will use the merchant credentials.
$this->rb->setLoggedInUser("Shrek");
$this->rb->setAdditionalDebitOfPayment($paymentId);
```
Ad you can see, setAdditionalDebitOfPayment does not require any other
parameter in than the payment that needs the extra orderline. Making
sure we're using the setLoggedInUser(), EComPHP will also set the
createdBy parameter to the administrator that added the extra order
line. If this is not being set, EComPHP will instead use the configured
merchant credentials (which might be a little bit of lacking sometimes).

> Payload noticeAs of v1.1.22 (+1.0.22), the payload will reset after
> each successful call to this method. This opens for multiple calls in
> the same "EComPHP session".

