---
layout: page
title: Testing (Ecomphp)
permalink: /development/php-and-development-libraries/version-1-x--ecomphp-/7438426/
parent: Php And Development Libraries
grand_parent: Development
---



# Testing (EComPHP) 
Created by Thomas Tornevall, last modified on 2019-09-05
- [Configuration and
  credentials](#Testing(EComPHP)-Configurationandcredentials)
- [Merging 1.0.x with 1.1.0](#Testing(EComPHP)-Merging1.0.xwith1.1.0)
  - [Keeping compatibility](#Testing(EComPHP)-Keepingcompatibility)
- [EComPHP Test Suite](#Testing(EComPHP)-EComPHPTestSuite)
Production tests
**Do you have plans running this suite in production mode? PLEASE, DO
NOT!**
The EComPHP testing suite is a bunch of function that is being runned
every time Resurs Bank are releasing the library patches. In this way,
we can be assured that the most common function in the library also
works properly. To assure that things also works properly for our
merchant developers (if they are utilizing with EComPHP), we also do
release the test suite for external testings. As soon as we can we will
completely leave 1.0 as the way it has been developed is obsolete.
**Do EComPHP have an EOL?**
Yes, it has. But it's not defined yet.
## Configuration and credentials
To set up the test suite properly, you should take a look at
test.json.sample and when you do have credentials to our test
environment, edit the file as test.json, and change the values in the
file to the data that fits you best.
## Merging 1.0.x with 1.1.0
Currently, to get things in sync, we build from EComPHP 1.0 (that is
actually deprecated). When functions works in 1.0 we transfer the same
data to 1.1 and run tests.
### Keeping compatibility
*Classes in v1.0 must be updated to keep compatibility with 1.1.*
The list below covers the classes that must be translated, when merging
into v1.1 - In a close future, it will also cover the classes that must
be translated from v1.1 to v1.0, as long as v1.0 do have maintenance
support.
  
[TABLE]
  
## EComPHP Test Suite
As of the release of EComPHP v1.1, we will provide a test suite
compatible with PHPUnit and PHPStorm, to make sure that at least the
simplified flow works properly (Resurs Checkout will come soon).
Currently, the suite is quite simple built to test most standard
payments in sweden (and one in norway).
The test suite is delivered in the git branch in /tests, and contains a
test.json.sample. This must be configured and set up as test.json before
the suite will run. The json file contains a bunch of standard settings,
required for the test suite and is not delivered with any merchant
username/password. You must make sure you have this available. Most of
the tests are built for sweden so if you don't have any norwegian
merchant account, you can leave this empty and the tests will skip that
part. You should also make sure that you have the four payment methods
listed in this configuration example below (invoice legal, invoice
natural, card and new card) as the tests will pass through them all.
You might also want to change the urls in the end of configuration to
see what works and not works from there. In this case you should make
sure that the urls exists and are reachable from where you run the
tests.
**test.json**
``` syntaxhighlighter-pre
{
  "sweden": {
    "username": "",
    "password": ""
  },
  "norway": {
    "username": "",
    "password": ""
  },
  "alertReceivers": [],
  "alertFrom": [],
  "availableMethods": {
    "invoice_legal": "invoice_legal",
    "invoice_natural": "invoice_natural",
    "card": "card",
    "card_new": "card_new"
  },
  "availableMethodsNorway": {
    "invoice_natural": "invoice_natural",
    "card": "card",
    "card_new": "card_new"
  },
  "callbackUrl": "http://myurl.test.com/",
  "signUrl": "https://test.resurs.com/signdummy/?success=true",
  "failUrl": "https://test.resurs.com/signdummy/?success=false"
}
```
