---
layout: page
title: Important Notes And Troubleshooting/Exceptions (Ecomphp)
permalink: /development/php-and-development-libraries/version-1-x--ecomphp-/7438497/
parent: Php And Development Libraries
grand_parent: Development
---



# Important notes and troubleshooting/exceptions (EComPHP) 
Created by Thomas Tornevall, last modified on 2022-03-24
- [Payment methods in simplified shopflow vs Resurs
  Checkout](#Importantnotesandtroubleshooting/exceptions(EComPHP)-PaymentmethodsinsimplifiedshopflowvsResursCheckout)
- [Why is NOT_ALLOWED_IN_PAYMENT_STATE
  happening?](#Importantnotesandtroubleshooting/exceptions(EComPHP)-WhyisNOT_ALLOWED_IN_PAYMENT_STATEhappening?)
- [Why is "-" added to customerId in
  metadata?](#Importantnotesandtroubleshooting/exceptions(EComPHP)-Whyis%22-%22addedtocustomerIdinmetadata?)
- [The SOAP-calls are not cached and therefore
  slow](#Importantnotesandtroubleshooting/exceptions(EComPHP)-TheSOAP-callsarenotcachedandthereforeslow)
- [SSL
  Issues](#Importantnotesandtroubleshooting/exceptions(EComPHP)-SSLIssues)
- [ECommerce throws/returns errors during
  createPayment](#Importantnotesandtroubleshooting/exceptions(EComPHP)-ECommercethrows/returnserrorsduringcreatePayment)
- [Exceptions](#Importantnotesandtroubleshooting/exceptions(EComPHP)-Exceptions)
## Payment methods in simplified shopflow vs Resurs Checkout
Historically (for ecom 1.3 at least), simplified shopflow has not always
supported payment providers. To not break standard compatibility by
displaying unsupported methods in a checkout, EComPHP chose to hide them
by default. Today, this is different but the getPaymentMethods-method
called from ECom is still honoring PSP methods. This happens since
payment providers supports government-id-less submission forms, which
Resurs internals require. To activate full support for all payment
methods (requires that you can handle the lack of governmenet id), you
can make this kind of call to EComPHP:
``` syntaxhighlighter-pre
$connection->setSimplifiedPsp(true);
```
## Why is NOT_ALLOWED_IN_PAYMENT_STATE happening?
Normally, this error is considered a "cornercase trap" which can happen
if you handle your payment integration wrong based on payment methods
that does not require signing and customers gets their payments FROZEN
on checkout. bookSignedPayment can not usually be used on orders in that
"payment state" and therefore the soap will refused the action. If you
integrate your system, if nothing else works, you can do a getPayment
before the bookSignedPayment, since this SOAP-call only is needed when
the payment is not yet fully created at Resurs Bank. So if you are using
getPayment and gets a response from the API that gives you an existing
order - you don't have to book any signed payment as it is already
present.
## Why is "-" added to customerId in metadata?
See
[ECOMPHP-334](https://resursbankplugins.atlassian.net/browse/ECOMPHP-334).
Swedish description below.
ECom autogenererar ett kundnummer under aftershop-hanteringen (se
nedan). Frågan har ställts varför det är så och av allt att döma är den
enda skillnaden just nu att kundnummer är helt tomt när man inte sätter
det, jämfört med när man sätter ett “-” i fakturan (se dumpt). Antingen
har detta varit en fix för att motverka en tidig bugg med fakturorna,
men det förtäljer inte historien då metoden i princip inte har detta
dokumenterat.
Vad som möjligtvis kan ha varit anledningen till att kundnummer sätts så
tidigt i processen kan ha att göra med att det inte går att sätta
kundnummer senare, utan måste göras direkt. Detta förfarande är i
skrivande stund otestat dock. Det är bara fakturautseendet i sig som har
genomgått test. Men eftersom det är metadata är det mest troligt att det
sätts tidigt för att inte påverka prestandamässigt vid själva
finaliseringen, genom att skicka extra apianrop just när en faktura
skall debiteras. Dessutom kan det vara så att metadata-apiet inte
fungerar under tiden som finalizePayment går iväg och därmed riskerar
finaliseringen att inte heller fungera om felet inte fångas ordentligt.
        /**
         * Split function for aftershop: This was included in each of the deprecated function instead of running from a
         * central place
         *
         * @param $paymentId
         *
         * @return bool
         */
        private function aftershopPrepareMetaData($paymentId)
        {
            try {
                if (empty($this->customerId)) {
                    $this->customerId = "-";
                }
                $this->addMetaData($paymentId, "CustomerId", $this->customerId);
            } catch (\Exception $metaResponseException) {
            }
            return true;
        }
  
## The SOAP-calls are not cached and therefore slow
You may be able to speed up things in ECom by enabling wsdl caching,
just remember that things are currently not built for handling this
properly. The history goes back to an unstable SoapClient where the
results of the soap-requests could act very strange when the WSDL was
cached. However, caching wsdl may give the opportunity to save a few
seconds as the SoapClient tend to ask for the wsdl during each request
otherwise. Just remember, if you follow the below advise you're kind of
on your own, as the current module is built on trying to not do anything
wrong - without caching the wsdl.
If you are a developer, make sure you have the latest release of EcomPHP
and netcurl v6 and add something like this.
**netcurl cache_wsdl**
``` syntaxhighlighter-pre
// For versions above 1.3.40, use:
$this->ECOM->setWsdlCache(true);
// For older versions of the plugin, use:
$CH = $this->TEST->ECOM->getCurlHandle();
$CH->setCurlOpt(['cache_wsdl' => 3]);
$this->TEST->ECOM->setCurlHandle($CH);
```
The behaviour of the above command is not entirely natural. Normally,
from netcurl 6.0.25, an error occurred when trying to push options into
something that is used by curl. From version 6.0.26 and 6.1.0 this is
however allowed to do, even if the outcome of it MAY destroy something
else in the ecom-core.
Note: How this is done in netcurl-6.1 is still not documented. However,
having direct access to the each netcurl core (perferrably NetWrapper as
this is auto selective on http communication), allows - regarding to the
test suite - something like this:
**SoapClientWrapper**
``` syntaxhighlighter-pre
(new SoapClientWrapper($this->no_wsdl))
                ->setWsdlCache(WSDL_CACHE_DISK)
                ->setAuthentication(
                    $this->rEcomPipeU,
                    $this->rEcomPipeP
                )->getPaymentMethods();
```
  
## SSL Issues
In some rare cases, when your web environment for example are
customized, it happens that ssl certificate bundles can not be found,
loaded, or things that makes SSL URL calls unsafe. Normally, EComPHP
prohibits all calls where certificates of SSL can not be validated as
real, since anything else are considered invitations to
man-in-the-middle-attacks. There is however a workaround for this, for
test environments. When switching to production, this won't work.
``` syntaxhighlighter-pre
$initFlow->setDebug(true);
$initFlow->setSslValidation(false, false);
```
Those two lines will shut down SSL validation completely. Please note,
that setSslValidation does not work if debug mode is shut of, so those
two variabels must work together. In our woocommerce plugin, you can set
the special flag **DISABLE_SSL_VALIDATION**, in the advanced section to
bypass the SSL validations in test mode.
## ECommerce throws/returns errors during createPayment
Sometimes, when creating your payment, things go wrong. Sometimes it's
all about the payload. Debugging the payload if that is the failing
part, it might be tricky to find out what happened. Besides, before
1.0.2, reviewing the payload before completing the payment wasn't the
easiest to do as the bookPayment()-function always did everything by
itself in one step. From 1.0.2, payments can be "delayed" and put up in
two steps:
``` syntaxhighlighter-pre
$this->rb->setRequiredExecute(true);
$delayPayment = $ECOM->createPayment( "PRIVATE_INVOICE" );
```
Having your payment ready to go like this, will prevent that the primary
webservice call is firing during the createPayment()-process. Instead,
to really invoke the booking, the call has now been set up to wait for
your call. \$delayPayment will, in this mode return a small array that
looks like
``` syntaxhighlighter-pre
array(
    'status' => 'delayed'
);
```
In this state, you could do whatever sidestep you need to do. For
example, if you need to check your payload before sending it, you can
now run this, to see what it really contains...
``` syntaxhighlighter-pre
var_dump($ECOM->getPayload());
```
And when ready too book the payment:
``` syntaxhighlighter-pre
$finalBooking = $ECOM->Execute();
```
## Exceptions
The curl library currently used usually passes exceptions through and
when they are handled internally and separately, it will rethrow an
exception with the previous one. The reason is that some exceptions
sometimes (especially during the SOAP web services) throw more data that
you might want to ook at. For example, some exceptions are reached the
following way (which also can be seen in the unitTest suite):
``` syntaxhighlighter-pre
try {
   $wsdl->someThingWentWrong();
} catch ( \Exception $e ) {
   $previousException = $e->getPrevious();
   $exceptionMessage = $e->getMessage();
   $previousExceptionMessage = $previousException->getMessage();
   $details = isset($previousException->detail) ? $previouseException->detail : null;   // Resurs detailed exceptions not always available
   if (!is_null($details)) {
       // The details always contains this collection of data
       $fixableByYou = $details->fixableByYou;
       $errorTypeDescription = $details->errorTypeDescription;
       $errorTypeId = $details->errorTypeId;
       $userErrorMessage = $details->userErrorMessage;
   }
}
```
