---
layout: page
title: Iframe Communication (V2Api)
permalink: /resurs-checkout-web/5570788/
parent: Resurs Checkout Web
---


# Iframe communication (v2API) 

**Table of contents**
- [Requirements](#Iframecommunication(v2API)-Requirements)
- [What happened to
  ResursCheckoutJS?](#Iframecommunication(v2API)-WhathappenedtoResursCheckoutJS?)
- [Integration](#Iframecommunication(v2API)-Integration)
  - [Making the POST-request in your backend
    scripts](#Iframecommunication(v2API)-MakingthePOST-requestinyourbackendscripts)
  - [Quick start: Most used methods in the \$ResursCheckout
    object](#Iframecommunication(v2API)-Quickstart:Mostusedmethodsinthe$ResursCheckoutobject)
    - [create()](#Iframecommunication(v2API)-create())
    - [onSubmit(), release(),
      recreate()](#Iframecommunication(v2API)-onSubmit(),release(),recreate())
    - [onCustomerChange(),
      onPaymentChange()](#Iframecommunication(v2API)-onCustomerChange(),onPaymentChange())
    - [onPaymentFail()](#Iframecommunication(v2API)-onPaymentFail())
- [Undocumented
  features](#Iframecommunication(v2API)-Undocumentedfeatures)
## Requirements
None.
## What happened to ResursCheckoutJS?
ResursCheckoutJS - ***the older release based on postMsg*** - is no
longer fully supported. The old documentation for that system has been
replaced with this one.
If you already run on the old postMsg-platform, we recommend you to
upgrade your platform to this current version (2) which is hosted in the
form of a framework at Resurs Bank side.
## Integration
When requesting an iframe for the old legacy release, all of the content
code had to be put in the body instantly. Some platforms did not support
this method and in some cases, you had to put some executable scripts in
the \<head\> tags. For version 2, both variants is available but using
the header method is the most recommended way to do this on. The easy
described way to implement this solution is
### Making the POST-request in your backend scripts
When generating the v2-iframe, you get a bunch of variables in response
as before, but they are separated like this:
``` syntaxhighlighter-pre
{
    "paymentSessionId": "session-id-uuid",
    "iframe": "<iframe id=\"rco-checkout-app-frame\" src=\"https:\/\/omnitest.resurs.com\/v2\/se\/?session-id-uuid\" frameBorder=\"0\" width=\"100%\" scrolling=\"no\" ><\/iframe>",
    "script": "<script type=\"text\/javascript\" src=\"https:\/\/omnitest.resurs.com\/v2\/se\/resursCheckout.js\"><\/script>",
    "baseUrl": "https:\/\/omnitest.resurs.com\/v2\/se\/",
    "html": "<iframe id=\"rco-checkout-app-frame\" src=\"https:\/\/omnitest.resurs.com\/v2\/se\/?session-id-uuid\" frameBorder=\"0\" width=\"100%\" scrolling=\"no\" ><\/iframe><script type=\"text\/javascript\" src=\"https:\/\/omnitest.resurs.com\/v2\/se\/resursCheckout.js\"><\/script>""
}
```
The best way to use this payload is to put the iframe in the body as
before, but put the script in the header of your site. In the above
example, you'll need the iframe and the script-data. In your frontend,
make sure you wait until the pageload is completed, for example:
``` syntaxhighlighter-pre
jQuery(document).ready(function ($) {
    // Put your actions here.
});
```
Same example but without jquery dependencies:
``` syntaxhighlighter-pre
window.onload = function() {
    // Put your actions here.
}
```
At the "start actions" point in the codeblock above, you can now
initialize all event required from Resurs Bank. By waiting for document
readiness, you'll also ensure the site that the object \$ResursCheckout
exists, since this is the one you communicate with to-and-from the
iframe. Theere's a bigger live example on how an [integration could be
made at
github](https://github.com/Tornevall/tornevalls-resurs-bank-payment-gateway-for-woocommerce/blob/master/js/resursbank_rco_v2.js).
### Quick start: Most used methods in the \$ResursCheckout object
The most common use with \$ResursCheckout is the following events:
#### create()
This is the iframe initializer. We'd suggest that you put this one as
the last action in the chain, as this initializes and creates the
iframe. And before that we'd like to ensure that our other events is
ready to run. This one takes four arguments:
**paymentSessionId**, **baseUrl**, **hold** and **containerId**. As you
can see, we call for a method in the example below, with the name
**getResursRcoContainer** in two of the arguments. Those are very
important and can be fetched from the above payload. They have to be
injected in the create command somehow and in the example, we have this
data stored elsewhere in the javascript so it can easily imported to
this place.
We also need to tell \$ResursCheckout where the iframe container is. The
iframe container is the html element you put the iframe into, so
\$ResursCheckout knows where to render the iframe. The hold feature, is
present to tell \$ResursCheckout to not handle the payment instantly on
the submission, but wait for your backend to finalize what's need to be
done in the order creation. See the section onSubmit() for more
information about the "unholding" part.
``` syntaxhighlighter-pre
var paymentSessionId = 'session-id-returned-from-the-post-request';
var baseUrl = 'https://the-base-url';
$ResursCheckout.create({
    paymentSessionId: paymentSessionId,
    baseUrl: baseUrl,
    hold: true,
    containerId: 'resursbank_rco_container'
});
```
  
#### onSubmit(), release(), recreate()
This is the iframe-side-based trigger, when the submit button is
clicked, which initializes the purchase at Resurs Bank.
``` syntaxhighlighter-pre
$ResursCheckout.onSubmit(function (event) {
   // Order creation. For example, you want to put a backend call here, to create the order in your store.
   // When your backend is completed here, you can tell $ResursCheckout to "unhold" its waiting feature:
   $ResursCheckout.release();
   // If something goes sideways here, you can either handle the problem yourself or make use of the feature recreate() to recreate the iframe:
   $ResursCheckout.recreate();
})
```
#### onCustomerChange(), onPaymentChange()
In its simplest way, depending on you platform, this is the place you
want to either temporary store customer- and payment method data until
**onSubmit** are triggered, or you could send a backend request to store
this data in a backend session until order creation is ready.
``` syntaxhighlighter-pre
$ResursCheckout.onCustomerChange(function (event) {
    resursBankRcoDataContainer.rco_customer = event;
});
$ResursCheckout.onPaymentChange(function (event) {
    resursBankRcoDataContainer.rco_payment = event
});
```
#### onPaymentFail()
An early state failure notification
``` syntaxhighlighter-pre
$ResursCheckout.onPaymentFail(function (event) {
    // Execute what needs to be done with failed orders.
});
```
## Undocumented features
The below list is further features in \$ResursCheckout that is not yet
fully documented.
  
[TABLE]
  
