---
layout: page
title: Bitwise Features (Ecomphp)
permalink: /development/php-and-development-libraries/version-1-x--ecomphp-/ecomphp-features-and-tips/16056616/
parent: Php And Development Libraries
grand_parent: Development
---



# Bitwise features (EComPHP) 
Created by Thomas Tornevall, last modified on 2020-02-05
At some places in EComPHP there are constants based on the integers 1,
2, 4, 8, 16, etc - rather than 1, 2, 3, 4. By means, you can set up one
value that represents many events. Below follows at list with examples
where we practice active bitmasking in EComPHP.

**Table of contents**
- [General usage of
  bitmasking](#bitwisefeatures(ecomphp)-generalusageofbitmasking)
  - [Principles](#bitwisefeatures(ecomphp)-principles)

- [RESURS_PAYMENT_STATUS_RETURNCODES](#bitwisefeatures(ecomphp)-resurs)
  - [RESURS_CALLBACK_TYPES](#bitwisefeatures(ecomphp)-resurs)
  - [Other classes based on
    bitmasking](#bitwisefeatures(ecomphp)-otherclassesbasedonbitmasking)

# General usage of bitmasking
If we use **RESURS_PAYMENT_STATUS_RETURNCODES** below in this
description, a payment can - regardless of what Resurs are returning in
the getPayment()-statement - in the below example have a maximum value
of 63.

**If** this happens, something of course went terribly wrong, but as an
example it is just fine. The value 63 indicates that the order is
*pending, processing, completed, annulled, credited and automatically
debited* at the same time. Another example, if the code is 12, we know
that the order is both annulled and finalized, and so on. By using
bitvalues, instead of static constants, we can add as many of those
flags as we need. If the value is 27, the status will become *Credited,
Annulled, Processing and Pending* (16+8+2+1) and so on.

The only thing we need to think of, is to use each bit as the flag that
we want to extract:

| Bit | Value | ReturnCode                |
|-----|-------|---------------------------|
| 1   | 1     | Pending                   |
| 2   | 2     | Processing                |
| 3   | 4     | Completed                 |
| 4   | 8     | Annulled                  |
| 5   | 16    | Credited                  |
| 6   | 32    | Automatically debited     |
| 7   | 64    | Another flag              |
| 8   | 128   | Yet another flag          |
| ... | Etc   | *Add as much as you want* |

## Principles
This method normally allows developers to store at least 8 different
flags as one byte in a file, so even if there are 8 different settings
in a configuration, the file will just be 1 byte big and the single
character ascii code can be anything between 0-255.

If the flags are more than 8 bits, the value will require 2 byte (16 bit
= 1024 - 2 bytes, 24 bit = 2048 - 3 bytes, and so on).

# RESURS_PAYMENT_STATUS_RETURNCODES
RESURS_PAYMENT_STATUS_RETURNCODES is refactored as of october 2018.
Instead of returning a static constant during payment status checks, it
returns a value that represents a set of flags for a payment. In this
case the flags only covers payments that is actually finalized
immediately after the order has been created. You can read more about
the usage [here](16056643). In short a payment can have more than one
status code due to the payment behaviour. If an order is completed only,
after a set of actions from the merchant, the status usally will be 4.

```xml
abstract class RESURS_PAYMENT_STATUS_RETURNCODES
{
    const PAYMENT_STATUS_COULD_NOT_BE_SET = 0;     // Waiting for callback or frozen
    const PAYMENT_PENDING = 1;     // Waiting for callback or frozen
    const PAYMENT_PROCESSING = 2;  // Booked, waiting for next action
    const PAYMENT_COMPLETED = 4;   // Fully finalized (debited)
    const PAYMENT_ANNULLED = 8;    // Fully annulled
    const PAYMENT_CREDITED = 16;    // Fully credited
    const PAYMENT_AUTOMATICALLY_DEBITED = 32;    // Fully credited
}
```

## RESURS_CALLBACK_TYPES
RESURS_CALLBACK_TYPES is normally not necessary to bitmask as you might
want to use different urls for different callbacks, when registering
them. It might get handy when you'd like to register many callbacks in
one call. As this part of EComPHP has been used for long time, there is
a slight risk that compatiblity breaks on the road, so for registering
callbacks this is not fully implemented. However, for unregistering the
callback events, it is since there are no need for adding urls to that
method call.

**BitMask**
```xml
abstract class RESURS_CALLBACK_TYPES
{
    const NOT_SET = 0;
    const UNFREEZE = 1;
    const ANNULMENT = 2;
    const AUTOMATIC_FRAUD_CONTROL = 4;
    const FINALIZATION = 8;
    const TEST = 16;
    const UPDATE = 32;
    const BOOKED = 64;
}
```
For those constants, you might apply bitmasking features. Bitmasking is
still experimental but the example above shows constants for how to use
callbacks in this way. In this particular one, you can unregister
multiple callbacks with only one touch, instead of calling the
unregisterEventCallback multiple times.

The following example will unregister FINALIZATION,
AUTOMATIC_FRAUD_CONTROL and TEST as callbacks. The second parameter is
set to true and will indicate, to Ecom, that the command covers multiple
callbacks:

```xml
$this->TEST->ECOM->unregisterEventCallback(RESURS_CALLBACK_TYPES::FINALIZATION | RESURS_CALLBACK_TYPES::AUTOMATIC_FRAUD_CONTROL | RESURS_CALLBACK_TYPES::TEST, true);
```
Another way to do the exact same request is to use the value directly.
However, this is not recommended, since there is always a risk that
changes is made in core systems.

```xml
$this->TEST->ECOM->unregisterEventCallback(28, true);
```
## Other classes based on bitmasking

**RESURS_AFTERSHOP_RENDER_TYPES** is prepared for the use of bitmasking
but currently not entirely tested. The purpose is to extract payment
specs from an order with specific types. For example, to extract rows
from an order that has been annulled or credited
**(RESURS_AFTERSHOP_RENDER_TYPES::CREDIT
\| RESURS_AFTERSHOP_RENDER_TYPES::ANNUL)** can be used. To extract rows
that has been debited and credited, you can in the same way
use **(RESURS_AFTERSHOP_RENDER_TYPES::CREDIT
\| RESURS_AFTERSHOP_RENDER_TYPES::FINALIZE)**.

