---
layout: page
title: Instant Finalization / Bitwise Constants (Ecomphp)
permalink: /development/php-and-development-libraries/version-1-x--ecomphp-/ecomphp--debit--credit--annul--aftershopflow-/16056643/
parent: Php And Development Libraries
grand_parent: Development
---



# Instant FINALIZATION / Bitwise constants (EComPHP) 
Created by Thomas Tornevall, last modified on 2020-11-12
**Table of contents**
- [What is this,
  really?](#InstantFINALIZATION/Bitwiseconstants(EComPHP)-Whatisthis,really?)
  - [I don't want
    it](#InstantFINALIZATION/Bitwiseconstants(EComPHP)-Idon'twantit)
  - [I do want to use
    it](#InstantFINALIZATION/Bitwiseconstants(EComPHP)-Idowanttouseit)

- [How to programmatically use this
  solution](#InstantFINALIZATION/Bitwiseconstants(EComPHP)-Howtoprogrammaticallyusethissolution)
  - [Best practice with
    swich/case](#InstantFINALIZATION/Bitwiseconstants(EComPHP)-Bestpracticewithswich/case)
  - [Is the order the values are handled in
    important?](#InstantFINALIZATION/Bitwiseconstants(EComPHP)-Istheorderthevaluesarehandledinimportant?)

# What is this, really?
The method we're using here is based on the binary system and each value
in the bitmasking table is set with a value. Normally, this is just
"regular numbers" that could be used out of the box.

For instant finalizations the table could look like this:

| 128 | 64  |     32      |    16    |    8     |     4     |     2      |    1    |
|:---:|:---:|:-----------:|:--------:|:--------:|:---------:|:----------:|:-------:|
| off | off |   **on**    |   off    |   off    |  **on**   |    off     |   off   |
| \-  | \-  | autodebited | credited | annulled | completed | processing | pending |
|  0  |  0  |    **1**    |    0     |    0     |   **1**   |     0      |    0    |

If you have started using payment methods where customer payments are
instantly transferred to you as a merchant (SWISH, Vips, direct bank
transfers etc), you'd probably already realized that the flow behaviour
have started to act different. In some platforms finalization means that
orders are fully handled, delivered and debited which also means, if a
callback acts like this your order might be updated long before you've
actually handled it (the woocommerce plugin works like this). In the
above example, EComPHP will return status 36 (since 32+4=36) if this
function is enabled. This enables for status deviations at Resurs Bank,
that shop systems normally will be able to handle otherwise.

Since: EComPHP 1.3.14, 1.0.41 and 1.1.41
via RESURS_PAYMENT_STATUS_RETURNCODES.

## I don't want it
Then you don't have to read furthermore after this section. By sending a
**\$ECOM-\>setAutoDebitableTypes(false)** you can make ECom behave as in
prior version. By means, you disable the behaviour. However, this way of
handling instant finalizations is idle whatsoever, as long as you use
payment methods that is not actively supports the behaviour (SWISH,
INTERNET, "Direkt Bankbetalning", etc).

## I do want to use it
Everything starts in  **getOrderStatusByPayment()** regardless of the
callback.

PHP-modules that uses ECom correctly triggers this method on each
inbound callback so that ECom, based on the inbound payment, decides
which status that will be used. There are some exceptions - FINALIZATION
is one of them. When FINALIZATION is triggered, the normal behaviour to
follow is to just
return **RESURS_PAYMENT_STATUS_RETURNCODES::PAYMENT_COMPLETED**. ECom
will continue to do this, and in newer versions of ECom
**PAYMENT_COMPLETED has the constant value 4 instead of 30**.

- During the FINALIZATION process, ECom will also check the current
  payment method that was used in the order, but only if the type was
  defined as PAYMENT_PROVIDER.  

  *This means we'll experiencing as less performance as possible. Once
  finding a PAYMENT_PROVIDER, ECom will also make a short background
  check of the method to validate of which extended type it is and if it
  is potentially a "automatic finalizer"-method. If that's the case,*

- ECom will together with PAYMENT_COMPLETED (4) also return the constant
  PAYMENT_AUTOMATICALLY_DEBITED (32) in the same (bit)value, if it
  discovers that the payment method is based on PAYMENT_PROVIDER and the
  payment method is flagged as a method that instantly finalizes the
  payments.  
  *  
  The final result gives us the value 36
  (RESURS_PAYMENT_STATUS_RETURNCODES::PAYMENT_COMPLETED \|
  RESURS_PAYMENT_STATUS_RETURNCODES::PAYMENT_AUTOMATICALLY_DEBITED).  
  For "normal" payments, the value will still be 4
  (PAYMENT_COMPLETED).  
  *

# How to programmatically use this solution
## Best practice with swich/case

**Bitmask Comparisons**
```xml
// $suggestedStatus returned from ecomphp
switch (true) {
/* Other cases */
// If the suggested status from EComPHP matches with the flag completed (FINALIZED or fully debited) act from the same condition
case $suggestedStatus & (RESURS_PAYMENT_STATUS_RETURNCODES::PAYMENT_COMPLETED | RESURS_PAYMENT_STATUS_RETURNCODES::PAYMENT_AUTOMATICALLY_DEBITED):
    // If the suggested status from EComPHP has been flagged with PAYMENT_AUTOMATICALLY_DEBITED
    if ($suggestedStatus & RESURS_PAYMENT_STATUS_RETURNCODES::PAYMENT_AUTOMATICALLY_DEBITED) {
        $order->update_status('another_status_than_completed');
    } else {
        // ... or act normally
        $order->update_status('completed');
    }
    // Return the status code to someone that needs it.
    return $suggestedStatus;
/* Other other cases */
}
```
Before the relase of the changes in ECom, the below solutions is
examples on the effect with older solutions. In the first example, the
instant finalization will be ignored and the code will preferrably
ignore everything if the order has been both instantly finalized and
debited. In another way, this only covers regular payments without
instant debits.

**The simple old format**
```xml
if ($finalizeStatus === RESURS_PAYMENT_STATUS_RETURNCODES::PAYMENT_COMPLETED) {
   // The normal control
}
```
And finally, this is the hard way, which compares the values separately
"as is", checking both with old syntax:

```xml
if ($finalizeStatus === RESURS_PAYMENT_STATUS_RETURNCODES::PAYMENT_COMPLETED ||
    $finalizeStatus === RESURS_PAYMENT_STATUS_RETURNCODES::PAYMENT_COMPLETED + RESURS_PAYMENT_STATUS_RETURNCODES::PAYMENT_AUTOMATICALLY_DEBITED
) {
    // Act regardless of finalization status
}
```
## Is the order the values are handled in important?
It depends on how you use them. If you want to break on first matching
status, the order could made difference. If you look for more results
than just one - for example in the "Instant Finalization" (where two
values can be set) - and you split each status into separate cases, you
should definetly not use breaks after the first matching status.

